_pages/ramp_play.md, before:

---
title: Ramp Play booklet
layout: single
share: false
author_profile: false
permalink: /ramp_play/
classes: wide authorpage
toc: false
toc_label: All site authors
toc_icon: user-edit
toc_sticky: true
---

A popular activity among early years children is playing with ramps - children love to build ramps and roll things down them, and this can lead to some rich mathematical exploration covering a broad range of areas. 

The ramp play booklet is a guide for practitioners, all about exploring maths through ramp play. It contains lots of examples of children's play, reflections from practitioners, insight from mathematicians and practical things like new words to introduce and advice about getting started. 

[Fill out a short form and download the booklet as a PDF](https://forms.office.com/e/ueAusYef12){:target="_blank"}

{% include figure image_path="/assets/img/ramps_cover.png" alt="The front cover of the Ramp Play booklet" title="Fill out a short form and download the booklet as a PDF" url = "https://forms.office.com/e/ueAusYef12"%}

If you have any comments or questions, or if you'd like a large number of printed copies (for example to distribute within a local authority or an educational trust), please email us at hello@youngmindsbigmaths.co.uk. 

We hope to soon be able to send small numbers of booklets for the price of postage and packaging.

Do you already have the Ramp Play booklet? We'd really value your feedback:

[Ramp Play booklet feedback form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=i9hQcmhLKUW-RNWaLYpvlPDEhkwUqaNMixPXeJmcrLVUMU41VFFNQUxVMDQ1TVlPRlpGWkQzM0xVTC4u){:target="_blank"}

{% include figure image_path="/assets/img/building_ramps.png" alt="A double page spread from the ramps booklet. The title is 'Building Ramps'." title = "Fill out a short form and download the booklet as a PDF" url = "https://forms.office.com/e/ueAusYef12"%}

Commit message:

Adding link to printed copies, adding news about ramp play to about.md

_pages/ramp_play.md, after:

---
title: Ramp Play booklet
layout: single
share: false
author_profile: false
permalink: /ramp_play/
classes: wide authorpage
toc: false
toc_label: All site authors
toc_icon: user-edit
toc_sticky: true
---

The ramp play booklet is a guide for practitioners, all about exploring maths through ramp play. It contains lots of examples of children's play, reflections from practitioners, insight from mathematicians and practical things like new words to introduce and advice about getting started. 

[Download the booklet as a PDF](https://forms.office.com/e/ueAusYef12){:target="_blank"} - free

[Order printed copies (UK only)](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=i9hQcmhLKUW-RNWaLYpvlPDEhkwUqaNMixPXeJmcrLVURVpTWUYxUk44SVdUUkUwQTlKRDJJRzRLWC4u){:target="_blank"} - at the cost of postage and packaging.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/img/ramps_cover.png" alt="The front cover of the Ramp Play booklet" title="Fill out a short form and download the booklet as a PDF" url = "https://forms.office.com/e/ueAusYef12"%}

If you have any comments or questions, or if you'd like a large number of printed copies (for example to distribute within a local authority or an educational trust), please email us at hello@youngmindsbigmaths.co.uk. 

We hope to soon be able to send small numbers of booklets for the price of postage and packaging.

Do you already have the Ramp Play booklet? We'd really value your feedback:

[Ramp Play booklet feedback form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=i9hQcmhLKUW-RNWaLYpvlPDEhkwUqaNMixPXeJmcrLVUMU41VFFNQUxVMDQ1TVlPRlpGWkQzM0xVTC4u){:target="_blank"}

{% include figure image_path="/assets/img/building_ramps.png" alt="A double page spread from the ramps booklet. The title is 'Building Ramps'." title = "Fill out a short form and download the booklet as a PDF" url = "https://forms.office.com/e/ueAusYef12"%}
